docs(partials): Add Partials page to documentation (#8518)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/kong-enterprise/partials.md

---
title: Partials
badge: enterprise
concept_type: explanation
---

## What are Partials?

> Some entities in Kong share common configuration settings that often need to be repeated. For example, multiple plugins that connect to Redis may require the same connection settings. Without Partials, you would need to replicate this configuration across all plugins. If the settings change, you would need to update each plugin individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some entities in {{site.base_gateway}} share common configuration settings that often need to be repeated. For example, multiple plugins that connect to Redis may require the same connection settings. Without Partials, you would need to replicate this configuration across all plugins. If the settings change, you would need to update each plugin individually.
```

> Partials address this issue by allowing you to extract shared configurations into reusable entities that can be linked to multiple plugins. To ensure validation and consistency, Partials have defined types. The first two supported types are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partials address this issue by allowing you to extract shared configurations into reusable entities that can be linked to multiple plugins. To ensure validation and consistency, Partials have defined types. 

{{site.base_gateway}} supports the following types of Partials:
```

- **`redis-ce`**: Stores common Redis configurations for plugins available in {{site.ce_product_name}}.

> - **`redis-ee`**: Stores common Redis configurations for plugins available in {{site.ee_product_name}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`redis-ee`**: Stores common Redis configurations for plugins available only in {{site.ee_product_name}}.
```
Seems like we need this "only", since all plugins are available in EE.

## Creating a Partial

> Partials are a new core entity so in order to create a Partial you need to send a request to the AdminAPI like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a Partial, send a POST request to the Admin API:
```
We don't need to talk about the entity being new, since these are evergreen docs and not a blog.

```sh

> curl -i -X POST http://{HOSTNAME}:8001/partials \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/partials \
```
We generally use `localhost` as the placeholder host in the docs.

  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{
    "name": "YOUR-PARTIAL-NAME",
    "type": "redis-ce",
    "config": {
      "host": "REDIS-HOST"
    }
  }'
```

> Additional fields can also be defined. To verify the available fields for each Partial type, refer to the `/schemas/partials/redis-ce` and `/schemas/partials/redis-ee endpoints`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional fields can also be defined. To verify the available fields for each Partial type, refer to the `/schemas/partials/redis-ce` and `/schemas/partials/redis-ee` endpoints.
```
```

> ## Using a Partial in Plugin Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using a Partial in plugin configuration
```

> After creating a Partial, you can link it to a plugin using a POST or PUT request. For example, to link a rate-limiting plugin to a Partial:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a Partial, you can link it to a plugin using a POST or PUT request. For example, to link a Rate Limiting plugin to a Partial:
```

```sh

> curl -i -X POST http://{HOSTNAME}:8001/plugins \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X POST http://localhost:8001/plugins \
```

  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{
    "name": "rate-limiting",
    "config": {
      "minute": 10
    },
    "partials": [
      { "id": "PARTIAL-ID-TO-LINK" }
    ]
  }'
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This Rate Limiting plugin will now use all of the Redis configuration defined in the partial.
```

> ### Important Notes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - You cannot provide inline Redis configuration alongside Partial-linked configurations. Either define Redis settings in the plugin or skip the Redis key and use a Partial.
> 
> - The response will include the plugin's configuration along with the expanded Partial configuration. Together, these represent the complete configuration the plugin will use, merging its individual settings with those inherited from the linked Partial. This ensures you can see exactly how the plugin will behave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{:.important}
> You cannot provide inline Redis configuration alongside Partial-linked configurations. Either define Redis settings in the plugin, or skip the Redis key and use a Partial.

The response will include the plugin's configuration along with the expanded Partial configuration. Together, these represent the complete configuration the plugin will use, merging its individual settings with those inherited from the linked Partial. This ensures you can see exactly how the plugin will behave.
```

Example response:
```sh
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Length: 1021
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 17:21:56 GMT
Server: kong/3.10.0.0-enterprise-edition
X-Kong-Admin-Latency: 18
X-Kong-Admin-Request-ID: ecae700275f3aa1a7f48f4483305c465

{
    "config": {
        "day": null,
        "error_code": 429,
        "error_message": "API rate limit exceeded",

>         "fault_tolerant": true,
>         "header_name": null,
>         "hide_client_headers": false,
>         "hour": null,
>         "limit_by": "consumer",
>         "minute": 10,
>         "month": null,
>         "path": null,
>         "policy": "redis",
>         "redis": {
>             "database": 0,
>             "host": "localhost",
>             "password": null,
>             "port": 6379,
>             "server_name": null,
>             "ssl": false,
>             "ssl_verify": false,
>             "timeout": 2000,
>             "username": null
>         },
>         "redis_database": 0,
>         "redis_host": "localhost",
>         "redis_password": null,
>         "redis_port": 6379,
>         "redis_server_name": null,
>         "redis_ssl": false,
>         "redis_ssl_verify": false,
>         "redis_timeout": 2000,
>         "redis_username": null,
>         "second": null,
>         "sync_rate": -1,
>         "year": null
>     },
>     "consumer": null,
>     "consumer_group": null,
>     "created_at": 1741281716,
>     "enabled": true,
>     "id": "974a63f3-87e9-4f6b-ace8-5e54c9084760",
>     "instance_name": null,
>     "name": "rate-limiting",
>     "ordering": null,
>     "partials": [
>         {
>             "id": "a542d158-b73f-4bb7-921e-ab1debc772a0",
>             "name": "my-ce-partial-1",
>             "path": "config.redis"
>         }
>     ],
>     "protocols": [
>         "grpc",
>         "grpcs",
>         "http",
>         "https"
>     ],
>     "route": null,
>     "service": null,
>     "tags": null,
>     "updated_at": 1741281716
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We don't need to do this in the docs. If anything, it should be in the API spec.

> ## Verifying Plugin-Partial Links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verifying Plugin-Partial links
```

> To verify if a plugin is using a Partial:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify if a plugin is using a Partial, check the plugin's configuration:
```

```sh

> curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8001/plugins/974a63f3-87e9-4f6b-ace8-5e54c9084760

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8001/plugins/{plugin-id}
```

```

The partials key in the response will show the linked Partials. To view the complete configuration, including settings from linked Partials, append the `expand_partials=true` query parameter.

## Updating a Partial

> Updates to a Partial are automatically reflected in all linked plugins. Use caution when updating Partials, as incorrect configurations (e.g., wrong Redis port) can disrupt multiple plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates to a Partial are automatically reflected in all linked plugins. Use caution when updating Partials, as incorrect configurations (for example, a wrong Redis port) can disrupt multiple plugins.
```

> ## Detaching a Partial from a Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detaching a Partial from a plugin
```

To unlink a plugin from a Partial, update the plugin configuration and omit the partials key, as shown below:

```sh

> curl -i -X PUT http://{HOSTNAME}:8001/plugins/{PLUGIN_ID} \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X PUT http://localhost:8001/plugins/{PLUGIN_ID} \
```

  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{
    "name": "rate-limiting",
    "config": {
      "minute": 10,
      "redis": {
        "host": "YOUR-REDIS-HOST"
      }
    }
  }'
```

This action removes the link between the plugin and the Partial.

> ## Listing Plugins Linked to a Partial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Listing plugins linked to a Partial
```

To see which plugins are linked to a specific Partial:

```sh

> curl -i -X GET http://{HOSTNAME}:8001/partials/{PARTIAL-ID}/links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8001/partials/{PARTIAL-ID}/links
```

```

> The response provides a paginated list of linked plugins:
> 
> ```sh
> Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
> Connection: keep-alive
> Content-Length: 101
> Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
> Date: Thu, 06 Mar 2025 17:30:03 GMT
> Server: kong/3.10.0.0-enterprise-edition
> X-Kong-Admin-Latency: 12
> X-Kong-Admin-Request-ID: 3fd3f547a4508a5dbc527f6b1bc4f956
> 
> {
>     "count": 1,
>     "data": [
>         {
>             "id": "974a63f3-87e9-4f6b-ace8-5e54c9084760",
>             "name": "rate-limiting"
>         }
>     ],
>     "next": null
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response provides a paginated list of linked plugins.
```

## Deleting a Partial

Before deleting a Partial, ensure all linked plugins are unlinked. Then, delete the Partial:

```sh

> curl -i -X DELETE http://{HOSTNAME}:8001/partials/{PARTIAL-ID}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8001/partials/{PARTIAL-ID}
```
